# BRAIN SQUEEZE
#### Video demo: https://youtu.be/-s2VwBVfW2w
#### Description: 

This is my web-app/web-game for CS50X final project called Brain Squeeze. It is made with flask, with a lot of python, html and jscript all in one. It is a self-done project, with no team-members. 

The game is very simple in its own way, but the building of it took more. The user has a countdown clock in-which to enter 5 words of 5 different categories, based on a random letter generated by backend app. It is a 2 player game, so you can play it with a friend. Once the timer is down to 0, or the player has clicked the submit button, a results page is generated showing the winner and the words used by each player. 

You can register yourself to keep track of previous gameplay. There are separate login/signin pages available. The Sign In will take you to your profile page, while a Log In page before each game that allows you to record your gameplay. 2 Players can log in at the same time, or 1 player by himself and play a friend that has not registered. 

It is implemented it in a way that no details on the webpages can be changed/modified by the user (except the index). There are many features of hide/reveal based on options selected, different iterations of the game itself and the scoring.

The game is simple:
<ul>
<li>5 words inputed by the user based on a category</li>
<li>categories are fixed</li>
<li>inputs are checked versus saved lists in data files</li>
<li>inputs also checked against eachother for scoring</li>
<li>final score tallied and winner badge on results page</li>
<li>can signin/login to play, see history</li>
</ul>

This project spans about 1 month of work, with pain-staking searching of different methods to setup gameply, layout, design with bootstrap, Jinja syntaxing and HTML. Some searches were very basic, while others complex. I am new to coding and my whole experience was based on CS50X and what I learned there. 

From this project, I learned that first code written is not always the one you keep. I changing code over and over so many times that it was nothing from what I started with. The testing different record sqls until the table template was acceptable for the needed. Learning that there are things that can be more pythonic methods than just what you think is the pythonic, throwing them together and hoping they work. The time and effort required for doing all the backend and frontend, it is understandable to me why people become dedicated to 1 aspect and hone that one skill. 

I will admit to lots of work, lots of editing, commits, changes spanning that 1 month. I started with trying to build my own local space (failing with WSL and its not working) and deciding that codespaces in github was enough, until i was locked out due to overuse as a free user. Had to go back to building my local environment again (without WSL, just vscode and installing python, java, git on a laptop) to make vscode function the way I want. 

## App.py
The main goal was to set everything up in the backend so that nothing can be leaked/or changed by the user through inspect. It handles all the inputed information collected from each page by the user choice, and most of the time sends to the helper functions to keep itself more effecient. For every webpage, there is a routing and logging of all important aspects/errors that happen within the application while live.

Building the collection was hard and the amount of debugging was hectic. Overall though, its a smooth process and elegant code (in my view as a beginner).

## Helper.py
Here, you will find all the functions necessary to run the application. Functions include:
<ul>
<li>account creation</li>
<li>account changes</li>
<li>database searches (including opening and automatically closing of the database file for security)</li>
<li>profile history</li>
<li>gameplay scoring</li>
<li>searches through database for each answer/input provided by the each player, filtering if empty and checking versus eachother for commenality</li>

This collection of functions is what make the whole system run smoother, and since they are heavy lifted in helper.py, app.py can run harder, better, faster, stronger.

I had trouble with this, after writing all the code in app.py then finally understanding how what helper.py is all about and shifting all the code to here, then recoding again for variables sent to and from for it all to work. 


## Webpages
There are a total of 9 pages built for this whole app, each having a separte need. These are the face of my game:
<ul>
<li> index.html: frontpage/landing page for the app </li>
<li> layout.html: universal layout setup for the website with different iteration if signed-in</li>
<li> register.html: provides inputs for creating username, entering email and password of choice. </li>
<li> signin.html: page for entering your username and password to see your profile </li>
<li> profile.html: also the settings page for change of email and/or password. Includes gameplay history </li>
<li> quick.html: an iteration of the game</li>
<li> extra.html: an iteration of the game </li>
<li> long.html: an iteration of the game </li>
<li> results.html: provides results for the played game </li>
</ul>

The most diffcult to build was the gameplay pages (quick, extra and long) and the profile page. To make it run client-side run without backend support was the most difficult part, relying heavily on javascript to do the hide and reveal, starting the countdowns and design of buttons for start/submit, alongside many other aspects with HTML building for easy manipulation of the page from javascript. 

Profile was also a difficult build, as bootstrap tables and building proper tables to provide all the correct information to the profile history, selecting it from the sql record and combining it correctly to work in the table of this design. 

Overall, the packaging of all data to be sent from backend as 1 dict to the html and distributing it within the page was a little hectic, but detail orientation is essential for a proper page presentation.

## Requirements.txt
<ul>
<li>blinker==1.9.0</li>
<li>cachelib==0.13.0</li>
<li>click==8.1.8</li>
<li>colorama==0.4.6</li>
<li>Flask==3.1.0</li>
<li>Flask-Session==0.8.0</li>
<li>itsdangerous==2.2.0</li>
<li>Jinja2==3.1.6</li>
<li>MarkupSafe==3.0.2</li>
<li>msgspec==0.19.0</li>
<li>pytz==2025.2</li>
<li>Werkzeug==3.1.3</li>
</ul>

## Data resources
Searching the web for different data sets to use for searching against for each category. Nothing is perfect, but they worked well enough for the project at hand and the picture that appears in the browser favicon:

Picture: https://www.pikpng.com/pngvi/iToxTbJ_winner-free-png-image-winner-badge-roblox-clipart/

Animals: https://animals.net/

Movies: cs50

Object: 10000 most common English nouns (github) https://grammarvocab.com/things-name-list-a-to-z/#Things_Name_That_Starts_with_W_Y_Z

Countries: github list

Names: github list

Stackoverflow (everything on that web resource for solutions)
GeeksForGeeks
W3School


## Failed ideas:
<ul>
<li>Setting up a dual environment on the laptop (windows and linux)</li>
<li>Setting up WSL on vscode (tried, did not like it, failed)</li>
<li>Live spellcheck with javascript in the gameplay </li>
<li>Doing everything without co-pilot or AI-like software </li> 
<li>phplite on my vscode (needs live web-server)</li>
<li>Not repeating past mistakes (bootstrap classes)</li>
<li>Completing the project in a week. Took me a month </li>
<li>Inserting new data by user into the database text files for future (needs api checking which not available for language or budget) </li>
</ul>

## Conclusion
Overall, im happy with the project and how it worked out. Was fixing things while i was doing the video. Coding is not easy, but learned a lot. 

## Information
<ul>
<li>Start date: 17 April 2025</li>
<li>Complete date: 07 May 2025</li>
<li>Total commits: 98 </li>
 
Thanks CS50X.